docs/src/content/docs/setup/quick-start.md, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Get your first agentic workflow running in minutes. Install the extension, add a sample workflow, set up secrets, and run your first AI-powered automation.
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

## Adding an Automated Daily Status Workflow to Your Repo

In this guide you will add the automated [**Daily Repo Status Report**](https://github.com/githubnext/agentics/blob/main/workflows/daily-repo-status.md?plain=1) to an existing GitHub repository where you are a maintainer, running in GitHub Actions.

The aim here is **automated AI**: to install something that will run **automatically** every day, in the context of your repository. The workflow will regularly create or update a fresh status report issue in your repository, without any further manual intervention. If you're familiar with GitHub Actions, you will be aware of the power of automation in repositories; this is simply taking that to the next level with AI.

## Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have:

- ✅ **AI Account** - A [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) subscription, or a [Anthropic Claude](https://www.anthropic.com/) or [OpenAI Codex](https://openai.com/api/) API key
- ✅ **GitHub Repository** - a GitHub repository you are maintainer on
- ✅ **GitHub Actions** enabled in your repository
- ✅ **GitHub CLI** (`gh`) - A command-line tool for GitHub. [Install here](https://cli.github.com) v2.0.0+
- ✅ **Operating System**: Linux, macOS, or Windows with WSL

### Step 1 — Install the extension

Install the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/), then install the GitHub Agentic Workflows extension:

```bash wrap
gh extension install github/gh-aw
```

### Step 2 — Add the sample workflow and trigger a run

From your repository root run:

```bash wrap
gh aw add githubnext/agentics/daily-repo-status
```

This will take you through an interactive process to:

1. **Select an AI Engine** - You'll be prompted to choose between Claude, Copilot, or Codex
2. **Add the workflow** - Configure your first agentic workflow
3. **Set up required secrets** - If needed, you'll be prompted to create/add them now
4. **Trigger an initial run** - Start the workflow immediately to see it in action

Once your initial run is complete, a new issue will be created in your repository with a "repo status report". The report will be automatically generated by the AI based on recent activity in your repository, including issues, PRs, discussions, releases, and code changes. It will analyze:

- Recent repository activity (issues, PRs, discussions, releases, code changes)
- Progress tracking, goal reminders and highlights
- Project status and recommendations
- Actionable next steps for maintainers

### Going further — Customize your workflow

Your automated agent is fully customizable. If you like, you can customize it now:

1. Edit the workflow markdown file located at `.github/workflows/daily-repo-status.md` in your repository.

2. Regenerate the workflow YAML by running:

   ```bash
   gh aw compile
   ```

3. Commit and push to your repository.

4. You can now optionally trigger another run by running:

   ```bash
   gh aw run daily-repo-status
   ```

Some ideas for customization:

- Adjust the schedule to run more or less frequently
- Modify the style or content of the report
- Adjust the instructions to analyze patterns in failed CI runs or test coverage
- Request analysis of compliance with organizational standards
- Request analysis of ways the repository could be modernized or simplified

## What's next?

There are hundreds of other ways to use GitHub Agentic Workflows. Explore these in [Peli's Agent Factory](https://github.github.com/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-12-welcome-to-pelis-agent-factory/).

Or continue learning with these resources:

- [Creating Agentic Workflows](/gh-aw/setup/creating-workflows/)
- [How Agentic Workflows Work](/gh-aw/introduction/how-they-work/)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](/gh-aw/reference/faq/)

Commit message:

Include authentication script in quick-start guide
Added troubleshooting tip for authentication issues.

docs/src/content/docs/setup/quick-start.md, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Get your first agentic workflow running in minutes. Install the extension, add a sample workflow, set up secrets, and run your first AI-powered automation.
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

## Adding an Automated Daily Status Workflow to Your Repo

In this guide you will add the automated [**Daily Repo Status Report**](https://github.com/githubnext/agentics/blob/main/workflows/daily-repo-status.md?plain=1) to an existing GitHub repository where you are a maintainer, running in GitHub Actions.

The aim here is **automated AI**: to install something that will run **automatically** every day, in the context of your repository. The workflow will regularly create or update a fresh status report issue in your repository, without any further manual intervention. If you're familiar with GitHub Actions, you will be aware of the power of automation in repositories; this is simply taking that to the next level with AI.

## Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have:

- ✅ **AI Account** - A [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) subscription, or a [Anthropic Claude](https://www.anthropic.com/) or [OpenAI Codex](https://openai.com/api/) API key
- ✅ **GitHub Repository** - a GitHub repository you are maintainer on
- ✅ **GitHub Actions** enabled in your repository
- ✅ **GitHub CLI** (`gh`) - A command-line tool for GitHub. [Install here](https://cli.github.com) v2.0.0+
- ✅ **Operating System**: Linux, macOS, or Windows with WSL

### Step 1 — Install the extension

Install the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/), then install the GitHub Agentic Workflows extension:

```bash wrap
gh extension install github/gh-aw
```

> [!TIP]
> If you are encountering authentication issues, use this script,
> ```
> curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/gh-aw/main/install-gh-aw.sh | bash
> ```

### Step 2 — Add the sample workflow and trigger a run

From your repository root run:

```bash wrap
gh aw add githubnext/agentics/daily-repo-status
```

This will take you through an interactive process to:

1. **Select an AI Engine** - You'll be prompted to choose between Claude, Copilot, or Codex
2. **Add the workflow** - Configure your first agentic workflow
3. **Set up required secrets** - If needed, you'll be prompted to create/add them now
4. **Trigger an initial run** - Start the workflow immediately to see it in action

Once your initial run is complete, a new issue will be created in your repository with a "repo status report". The report will be automatically generated by the AI based on recent activity in your repository, including issues, PRs, discussions, releases, and code changes. It will analyze:

- Recent repository activity (issues, PRs, discussions, releases, code changes)
- Progress tracking, goal reminders and highlights
- Project status and recommendations
- Actionable next steps for maintainers

### Going further — Customize your workflow

Your automated agent is fully customizable. If you like, you can customize it now:

1. Edit the workflow markdown file located at `.github/workflows/daily-repo-status.md` in your repository.

2. Regenerate the workflow YAML by running:

   ```bash
   gh aw compile
   ```

3. Commit and push to your repository.

4. You can now optionally trigger another run by running:

   ```bash
   gh aw run daily-repo-status
   ```

Some ideas for customization:

- Adjust the schedule to run more or less frequently
- Modify the style or content of the report
- Adjust the instructions to analyze patterns in failed CI runs or test coverage
- Request analysis of compliance with organizational standards
- Request analysis of ways the repository could be modernized or simplified

## What's next?

There are hundreds of other ways to use GitHub Agentic Workflows. Explore these in [Peli's Agent Factory](https://github.github.com/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-12-welcome-to-pelis-agent-factory/).

Or continue learning with these resources:

- [Creating Agentic Workflows](/gh-aw/setup/creating-workflows/)
- [How Agentic Workflows Work](/gh-aw/introduction/how-they-work/)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](/gh-aw/reference/faq/)
